Feature/upgrade explore api v2 (#333)
opendatasoft/ods-documentation: source/exploring_catalog_and_datasets/04_getting_involved/using_api.rst

An API (Application Programming Interface) is an interface for programs to communicate and exchange data.

.. admonition:: Note
   :class: note

>    To know more about what APIs are and why and how they are used, you can read the article "`You don\'t need analogies to understand APIs <https://kitchen.opendatasoft.com/you-dont-need-analogies-to-understand-apis-14da4513f970>`_" written by one of our Opendatasoft developers.

Reviewer: Why removing the link to Julien's article? I find it very clear as a first jump into _what APIs are_.

> - `ODS Explore API V2 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-explore-v2/>`_: Opendatasoft's own APIs, used by the platform.

Reviewer: I think we should also highlight that it's our **main** public API here. Something like
```suggestion
- `ODS Explore API V2 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-explore-v2/>`_: main Opendatasoft explore API, used to explore catalogs and datasets with a custom SQL-like query language: ODSQL. Available publicly and also used internally.
```

Reviewer 2: +1 but IMO we don't need to say it is used internally in the doc.

   * Each record provides values for each of the dataset's fields.

ODS Explore API
---------------

> The ODS Explore API is used internally by the Opendatasoft platform and widgets. To develop an application, we recommend using this API, in V2.

Reviewer 2: Maybe just : `is used in Opendatasoft widgets`

This ODS Search API is used internally by the Opendatasoft platform and widgets. To develop an application, we recommend using this API.
The ODS Explore API is used internally by the Opendatasoft platform and widgets. To develop an application, we recommend using this API, in V2.

There are currently 2 versions of the ODS Search API: the `v1 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-search-v1/>`_ and the `v2 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-search-v2/>`_, which is still under development. Listed below, the main differences between the 2 versions.
There are currently 2 versions of the ODS Explore API: the `V2 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-explore-v2/>`_ and the `V1 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-search-v1/>`_, which is now deprecated. Listed below, the main differences between the 2 versions.

> * The ODS Search API v2 introduces a better implementation of REST principles. Each API entry-point provides links to navigate between linked resources (HATEOAS) easily.

Reviewer: `a better implementation of REST principles` 🙈 -> `/query` 🎤 ⬇️

>   * Aggregations endpoint and records endpoint now share the same structure and ODSQL language.

Reviewer: We agreed some time ago to deprecate the term `aggregations` which is very elastic-specific-language.
```suggestion
  * We deprecated the analyze API as all operations are now available on all endpoints. If you want to perform analysis (with expressions or functions) you can do so on either on the catalog or dataset endpoint. If you want to perform analysis on groups of records, you just have to group them with a `group_by` REST param.
```

ODS Explore API
---------------

The ODS Explore API is used in Opendatasoft widgets. To develop an application, we recommend using this API, in V2.

There are currently 2 versions of the ODS Explore API: the `V2 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-explore-v2/>`_ and the `V1 <https://help.opendatasoft.com/apis/ods-search-v1/>`_, which is now deprecated. Listed below, the main differences between the 2 versions.

* Key changes in the V2:

  * A richer query language (ODSQL) is available, with new functions and arithmetic expressions.
  * Special filters (such as geofilter and facet filters) are now directly integrated to ODSQL, in the ``where`` parameter.

>   * We deprecated the analyze API as all operations are now available on all endpoints. If you want to perform analysis (with expressions or functions) you can do so on either on the catalog or dataset endpoint. If you want to perform analysis on groups of records, you just have to group them with a `group_by` REST param.

Reviewer: Sorry, there was some typo in my sentence:
```
... you can do it either on the catalog or on the dataset endpoint.
```
